# QUASIKOM

The [Internet of Things (IoT)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_of_things
"Internet of things on Wikipedia") refers to the vision of a global network of
physical objects (i.e. "things") equipped with computing and wireless
communication capabilities that enable them to be uniquely identified or even
exchange data with other connected devices. RFID tags and wireless sensor nodes
constitute the first wave of such non-traditional computing devices that will
soon populate the Internet ecosystem in vast quantities. An ever-increasing
number of everyday objects, ranging from kitchen appliances over items of
clothing and sports goods to cars and other vehicles, become equipped with
microprocessors and wireless transceivers, which enables them to communicate
with each other and access central resources over the Internet. In a recent
white paper, Cisco estimates the number of smart objects connected to the
Internet to exceed [50
billion](http://www.cisco.com/c/dam/en_us/about/ac79/docs/innov/IoT_IBSG_0411FINAL.pdf
"Cisco IoT white paper") in 2020. This evolution of the Internet will change
the way how we interact with the physical world surrounding us and create
exciting new opportunities for the economy in such areas as health care,
industrial automation, resource management, and transportation and logistics,
to name a few.

The advent of [quantum
computing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_computing "Quantum computing on
Wikipedia") is another technological revolution that will soon have a profound
impact on our daily life and may even disrupt whole industries. In the not so
distant future, quantum computers will be powerful enough to aid the discovery
of new drugs or materials, to organize the routes of millions of self-driving
cars in metropolitan areas without introducing traffic jams, or to manage and
improve the efficiency of national power grids. Unfortunately, quantum
computing has also a destructive side because a large-scale quantum computer
would be able to break essentially every public-key cryptosystem in use today,
in particular RSA and ECC. However, there exist a few public-key cryptographic
algorithms that are unbreakable not only for classical computers, but also when
using a sophisticated quantum computer. The sub-area of cryptography that deals
with the design, cryptanalysis, and implementation of cryptographic algorithms
supposed to be able to withstand attacks by quantum computers is known as
[Post-Quantum Cryptography
(PQC)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Post-quantum_cryptography "Post-quantum
cryptography on Wikipedia") and has recently gained a lot of interest,
especially after the NIST announced an [initiative to
standardize](http://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/Post-Quantum-Cryptography "NIST
post-quantum cryptography project") quantum-safe cryptographic algorithms.

The QUASIKOM project is supported by [Netidee](http://www.netidee.at "NetIdee
Homepage").
